feat(curriculum): add fcc forum leaderboard lab to FSD cert (#57336)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-fcc-forum-leaderboard/673c91f0b934834bc4a3ecc2.md

---
id: 673c91f0b934834bc4a3ecc2
title: Build an fCC Forum Leaderboard
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-an-fcc-forum-leaderboard
demoType: onClick
---

# --description--

In this lab, you will build a freeCodeCamp forum leaderboard that displays the latest topics, users, and replies from the [freeCodeCamp forum](https://forum.freecodecamp.org/). The HTML, CSS and part of the JS have been provided for you. Feel free to explore them.

Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should have a function named `timeAgo` that takes a timestamp in the ISO 8601 format as the argument.

> 1. The `timeAgo` function should compute the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time and return:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `timeAgo` function should compute the time difference between the time passed as an argument and the current time and return:
```

      id: 6,
      name: "Quincy Larson",
      username: "QuincyLarson"
    },
    {
      avatar_template: "/user_avatar/forum.freecodecamp.org/jwilkins.oboe/{size}/179497_2.png",
      id: 285941,
      name: "Jessica Wilkins",
      username: "jwilkins.oboe"
    },
    {
      avatar_template: "/user_avatar/forum.freecodecamp.org/ilenia/{size}/270648_2.png",
      id: 170865,
      name: "Ilenia",
      username: "ilenia"
    }
  ],
  topic_list: {
    topics: [
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-15T16:01:26.403Z",
        category_id: 1,
        id: 684569,
        posters: [{user_id: 6}, {user_id: 170865}, {user_id: 285941}],
        posts_count: 8,
        slug: "the-freecodecamp-podcast-is-back-now-with-video",
        title: "The freeCodeCamp Podcast is back – now with video",
        views: 542
      },
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-19T13:52:03.523Z",
        category_id: 421,
        id: 686149,
        posters: [{user_id: 170865}],
        posts_count: 1,
        slug: "problem-with-making-changes-to-styles-js",
        title: "Problem with making changes to styles. (JS)",
        views: 9
      }
    ]
  }
}

> const pContainer = document.getElementById("posts-container");
> pContainer.innerHTML = "";
> showLatestPosts(data);
> 
> assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:first-child>td:nth-child(5)").innerText, "225d ago");
> 
> assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:last-child>td:nth-child(5)").innerText, "221d ago");

Author: ```suggestion
const calcTime = (time) => {
  const currentTime = new Date();
  const lastPost = new Date(time);
  const timeDifference = currentTime - lastPost;
  const daysAgo = Math.floor(hoursAgo / 24);
  return `${daysAgo}d ago`;
};
const pContainer = document.getElementById("posts-container");
pContainer.innerHTML = "";
showLatestPosts(data);

assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:first-child>td:nth-child(5)").innerText, calcTime("2024-04-15T16:01:26.403Z"));

assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:last-child>td:nth-child(5)").innerText, calcTime("2024-04-19T13:52:03.523Z"));
```

      id: 285941,
      name: "Jessica Wilkins",
      username: "jwilkins.oboe"
    },
    {
      avatar_template: "/user_avatar/forum.freecodecamp.org/ilenia/{size}/270648_2.png",
      id: 170865,
      name: "Ilenia",
      username: "ilenia"
    }
  ],
  topic_list: {
    topics: [
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-15T16:01:26.403Z",
        category_id: 1,
        id: 684569,
        posters: [{user_id: 6}, {user_id: 170865}, {user_id: 285941}],
        posts_count: 8,
        slug: "the-freecodecamp-podcast-is-back-now-with-video",
        title: "The freeCodeCamp Podcast is back – now with video",
        views: 542
      },
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-19T13:52:03.523Z",
        category_id: 421,
        id: 686149,
        posters: [{user_id: 170865}],
        posts_count: 1,
        slug: "problem-with-making-changes-to-styles-js",
        title: "Problem with making changes to styles. (JS)",
        views: 9
      }
    ]
  }
}
const calcTime = (time) => {
  const currentTime = new Date();
  const lastPost = new Date(time);
  const timeDifference = currentTime - lastPost;

>   const daysAgo = Math.floor(hoursAgo / 24);

Author: ```suggestion
  const msPerMinute = 1000 * 60;
  const minutesAgo = Math.floor(timeDifference / msPerMinute);
  const hoursAgo = Math.floor(minutesAgo / 60);
  const daysAgo = Math.floor(hoursAgo / 24);
```

1. Each image element should have a source with the value of the `avatar_template` property of the poster. In case `avatar_template` contains a relative path, you should set the source to `<avatarUrl>/<avatar_template>`.
1. You should have a function named `showLatestPosts` that takes a single parameter.
1. The `showLatestPosts` should extract the `users` and `topic_list` properties from the object passed as argument. Also, it should process the following properties of the `topics` object contained in `topic_list`:
    - `id`: the id of the post
    - `title`: the title of the post
    - `views`: the number of views of the post 
    - `posts_count`: the number of replies to the topic
    - `slug`: the slug of the post
    - `posters`: the posters for that topic
    - `category_id`: an integer indicating the category id for the post
    - `bumped_at`: a timestamp in the ISO 8601 format
1. The `showLatestPosts` should set the inner HTML of `#posts-container` to a string made by joining `tr` elements, one for each item in `topics`.
1. Each `tr` element should have five `td` elements in it:

>     - a `td` containing two anchor elements, one with the class of `post-title`, an `href` of `<forumTopicUrl>/<slug>/<id>`, an anchor text of `<title>`, and one obtained by calling `forumCategory` with `category_id`.

Reviewer 2: the slash is already included in `forumTopicUrl`, it can cuase confusion

>     - a `td` containing the images returned by the `avatars` function called with `posters` and `users` as arguments and nested within a `div` element with the class of `avatar-container`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - a `td` containing a `div` element with class `avatar-container` that containes the images returned by the `avatars` function called with `posters` and `users` as arguments.
```

    - a `td` containing the number of replies to the post. *Hint:* use `posts_count - 1`.
    - a `td` containing the number of views of the post.
    - a `td` containing the time passed since the last activity.
1. You should have an async function named `fetchData`.
1. The `fetchData` function should request data from `forumLatest` and call `showLatestPosts` passing it the response parsed as JSON.
1. If there's an error when fetching data, the `fetchData` function should log the error to the console.

# --hints--

You should have a function named `timeAgo` that takes a single argument.

```js
assert.isFunction(timeAgo);
assert.lengthOf(timeAgo, 1);
```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `50` minutes, `timeAgo` should return `50m ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 50)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "50m ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());

> assert.equal(expected, actual);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

the thing to test goes first

```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `60` minutes, `timeAgo` should return `1h ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "1h ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());

> assert.equal(expected, actual);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `15` hours, `timeAgo` should return `15h ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60 * 15)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "15h ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());

> assert.equal(expected, actual);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `24` hours, `timeAgo` should return `1d ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "1d ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());

> assert.equal(expected, actual);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `3` days, `timeAgo` should return `3d ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24 * 3)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "3d ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());

> assert.equal(expected, actual);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

    },
    {
      avatar_template: "/user_avatar/forum.freecodecamp.org/ilenia/{size}/270648_2.png",
      id: 170865,
      name: "Ilenia",
      username: "ilenia"
    }
  ],
  topic_list: {
    topics: [
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-15T16:01:26.403Z",
        category_id: 1,
        id: 684569,
        posters: [{user_id: 6}, {user_id: 170865}, {user_id: 285941}],
        posts_count: 8,
        slug: "the-freecodecamp-podcast-is-back-now-with-video",
        title: "The freeCodeCamp Podcast is back – now with video",
        views: 542
      },
      {
        bumped_at: "2024-04-19T13:52:03.523Z",
        category_id: 421,
        id: 686149,
        posters: [{user_id: 170865}],
        posts_count: 1,
        slug: "problem-with-making-changes-to-styles-js",
        title: "Problem with making changes to styles. (JS)",
        views: 9
      }
    ]
  }
}
const pContainer = document.getElementById("posts-container");
pContainer.innerHTML = "";
showLatestPosts(data);

assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:first-child>td:nth-child(4)").innerText, "542");

assert.equal(pContainer.querySelector("tr:last-child>td:nth-child(4)").innerText, "9");
```

> The fifth `td` element of each table row from the string returned by `showLatestPosts` should contain time passed since the last activity, generated using the `timeAgo` function.

Reviewer 2: I had this failing because I was using `round` instead of `floor`, it's difficult to see why it's failing

Author: I added two tests. Let me know if it can work like that

    - a `td` containing the number of replies to the post. *Hint:* use `posts_count - 1`.
    - a `td` containing the number of views of the post.
    - a `td` containing the time passed since the last activity.
1. You should have an async function named `fetchData`.
1. The `fetchData` function should request data from `forumLatest` and call `showLatestPosts` passing it the response parsed as JSON.
1. If there's an error when fetching data, the `fetchData` function should log the error to the console.

# --hints--

You should have a function named `timeAgo` that takes a single argument.

```js
assert.isFunction(timeAgo);
assert.lengthOf(timeAgo, 1);
```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `50` minutes, `timeAgo` should return `50m ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 50)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "50m ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

> When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `60` minutes and `10` seconds, `timeAgo` should return `1h ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

Reviewer 2: This works to check if someone is using `ceil` probably. To check `round` vs `floor` it probably need 115 minutes that should give 1h

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "1h ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `15` hours, `timeAgo` should return `15h ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60 * 15)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "15h ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `24` hours, `timeAgo` should return `1d ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

```js
const generateTime = () => {
    const currentTime = new Date();
    return new Date(currentTime - (1000 * 60 * 60 * 24)).toISOString()
}
const expected = "1d ago";
const actual = timeAgo(generateTime());
assert.equal(actual, expected);
```

> When the time difference between the time passed as argument and the current time is `25` hours, `timeAgo` should return `1d ago` but found `--fcc-actual--`.

Reviewer 2: this also to check for round vs floor it would need to be like 40 hours should give 1 day.

This test would still pass doing `Math.round(25 / 24)` which gives `1`

Instead there is a difference between `Math.floor(40 / 24)` and `Math.round(40 / 24)`
